COLLECT:
ADVENT      01  Put forth Thy power, O Lord, and come, that with Thee as our Protector we may be rescued from the dangers of our sins and be saved by Thy deliverance./1
            02  Stir up our hearts, O Lord, to prepare the ways of Thy only-Begotten Son, so that through His coming we may be able to serve Thee with purified minds./2
            03  Incline to our prayers Thy ear, O Lord, we beseech Thee, and brighten the darkness of our minds by the grace of Thy coming./1
            13  Grant us, we beseech Thee, almighty God, that the coming feast of our redemption may bring us both help for our present life, and the reward of everlasting happiness./2
            23  Put forth Thy power, O Lord, we beseech Thee, and come: that those who trust in Thee may soon be delivered from all harm./1
            33  O God, Thou sees how we are troubled by our evil tendencies: mercifully grant that we may find consolation in Thy coming./1
            04  Put forth Thy power, O Lord we beseech Thee, and delay not: and with Thy great power come to our aid, so that what is hindered by ours sins may be hastened by Thy merciful goodness./1
LENT        11  Mercifully hear our prayers, we beseech Thee, O Lord: and stretch forth the right hand of Thy Majesty against all things hostile to us./2
            21  Be merciful to Thy people, O Lord, and as Thou gives them the grace to serve Thee, make them new by Thy loving help./2
            31  Look graciously upon Thy people, we beseech Thee, O Lord, and in Thy mercy turn away from them the scourages of Thy wrath./2
PENTECOST   11  May the Advocate Who proceeds from Thee enlighten our minds, we beseech Thee, O Lord, and guide us to all truth, as Thy Son has promised./4
            21  Grant to Thy Church, we beseech Thee, almighty God, united by the Holy Spirit, she may in no way be harmed by any assault of the Enemy./4
            31  Graciously pour into our minds, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the Holy Spirit, Whose wisdom created us and Whose providence governs us./
HOLY CROSS  11  May our frailty, we beseech Thee, O Lord, find support in the help of Thy mercy: so that what is marred by its own nature may be restored by Thy grace./2
            21  Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God, that we who devoutly keep the sacred observances year by year may be pleasing to Thee both in body and soul./2
            31  Almighty and everlasting God, Thou Who cures body and soul through self-denial, we humbly entreat Thy majesty to hear favorably the devout prayers of those who fast, and to grant us help for the present and the future./2
            
DOXOLOGY:
1           Who lives and reigns with God the Father in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, unto the age of ages.
2           Through Jesus Christ, our Lord, Thy Son, Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, unto the age of ages.
3           Who lives and reigns with God the Father, in the unity of the same Holy Spirit, God, unto the age of ages.
4           Through Jesus Christ, our Lord, Thy Son, Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity of the same Holy Spirit, God, unto the age of ages.

ANTIPHON:
advent      This is the good news the Prophets foretold: the Savior will be born of the Virgin Mary.
            The nations will revere Thy Name, O Lord.
            And the kings of the earth will acknowledge Thy glory.
            The Angel Gabriel said to Mary in greeting: "Hail full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed are thou among women."
            Remember us, Lord, because of the love Thou has for Thy people.
            Come and bring us Thy salvation.
            Mary said: "My soul is deeply troubled: what can this greeting mean? Am I to give birth to my King and yet remain a virgin forever?"
            Come, Lord, do not delay.
            Free Thy people from their sinfulness.
adv_ember   It is the almighty God Who makes my way perfect.
            By this I know that Thou favors me:
            Because my enemy shall not triumph over me.
            Thou has crowned him who endures temptation with honor and glory, O Lord.
            Thou has set a crown of precious stones,
            Upon his head.
            Come to my rescue, O God, Lord of hosts.
            And the nations shall fear Thy Name.
            And the kings of the earth Thy glory.
lent_ember  The Lord has delivered me from the snare of the hunters.
            He will overshadow thee with His shoulders.
            And under His wings Thou shall trust.
            His truth shall encompass thee as a shield, and thou shall not fear the terror of the night.
            He has given His Angels charge over thee:
            To keep thee in all His ways.
            The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom.
            The law of God is in his heart:
            None of his steps shall slide.
pent_ember  The Spirit of the Lord fills the earth, alleluia.
            The Comforter, the Holy Spirit, alleluia:
            He shall teach you all things, alleluia.
            The Advocate is the Holy Spirit, promised by Christ.
            They were filled with the Holy Spirit, alleluia.
            And began to speak, alleluia.
            All were filled with the Holy Spirit, alleluia.
            The Apostles spoke in diverse tongues, alleluia.
            The wonderful works of God they proclaimed, alleluia.