Romans 13:13-14
Let us live honorably as in the day: not in reveling and drunkenness, not in debauchery and licentiousness, not in quarreling and jealousy. Rather, put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires.

1 Thessalonians 3:12-13
May the Lord make ye to increase and abound in love for one another and for all, just as we abound in love for you. And may He so strengthen your hearts in holiness that ye may be blameless before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His Saints.

2 Thessalonians 1:6-7, 10
It is indeed just of God to... give relief to the afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with His mighty Angelels; when He comes to be glorified by His Saints and to be marveled at on that day among all who have believed...

1 Thessalonians 5:23
May the God of peace Himself sanctify your entirely: and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Isaiah 1:24-28
Therefore, says the King, Lord of Armies, Israel's Savior:
"I will settle scores with my feos
    and take vengeance of my enemies,
and bring My hand back upon you
    and take away all your dross."

Philippians 2:5-11
Let the same mind be in you that was in our Christ, Jesus, Who, though He was in the form of God, did not regard equality with God as something to be exploited, but emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, being born in human likeness. And being found in human form, He humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death: even death on a cross. Therefore God also highly exalted Him and gave Him the Name that is above every name, so that at the Name of Jesus every knee should bend, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

Isaiah 1:2-18
Hear, O heavens, and give ear O earth,
    for the Lord has spoken.
"Sons I have nurtured and raised
    but they rebelled against Me.
The ox knows its owner
    and the donkey its master's stall.
Israel did not know,
    My people did not pay heed."
Woe! offending nation,
    people weighed down with crime,
seed of evildoers,
    sons acting ruinously.
They have offended the Lord,
    scorned Israel's Savior,
        they have fallen behind.
Why would ye be beaten more,
    still swerving from the way?
Every head is sick
    and every heart in pain.
From footsole to head
    no place in him intact,
wound, bruise,
    and open sore:
not drained, not bandaged,
    nor soothed with oil.
Your land is desolate,
    your towns are burned in fire.
Your soil, before your eyes:
    strangers devour it,
        and desolation like an upheaval by strangers.
And the daughter of Zion remains
    like a hut in a vineyard,
like a shed in a patch of greens,
    like a town besieged.
Had not the Lord of Armies
    left us a scant remnant,
we would be like Sodom,
    we would resemble Gomorrah.
    
Listen to the word of the Lord,
    O leaders of Sodom,
give ear to our God's teaching,
    O people of Gomorrah.
"Why need I all your sacrifices?"
    says the Lord.
"I am sated with the burnt offerings of rams
    and the suet of fatted beasts,
and the blood of bulls and sheep and goats
    I do not desire.
When you come to see My face,
    who asked this of you,
        to trample My courts?
You shall no longer bring false grain offering,
    it is an incense of abomination to Me.
New moon and sabbath and assembly:
    I cannot bear your crimes and convocations.
Your new moons and your appointed times
    I utterly despise.
They have become a burden to Me:
    I cannot bear them.
And when you spread your palms,
    I avert My eyes from you.
Though you abundantly pray,
    I do not listen:
        Your hands are full of blood.
Wash, become pure,
    remove your evil acts from My eyes.
        Cease doing evil.
Learn to do good,
    seek justice.
Make the oppressed happy,
    defend the orphan,
        argue the widow's case."
        
"Come, pray, let us come to terms,"
    the Lord said.
"If your offenses be like scarlet,
    like snow shall they turn white.
If they be red as dyed cloth,
    they shall become like pure wool."

Matthew 24:37-44
Jesus spoke unto His disciples: "For as the days of Noah were, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. For as in those days before the Flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day Noah entered the Ark, and they knew nothing until the Flood came and swept them all away, so too will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two will be in a field: one will be taken and one will be left. Two women will be grinding meal together: one will be taken and one will be left. Keep awake therefore, for ye do not know on what day or at what hour your Lord is coming. But understand ye this: if the owner of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore ye also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an unexpected hour."

Cyril of Jerusalem I
?n  Catechetical Lecture XV
    Saint Cyril of Jerusalem, Doctor and Bishop
We do not preach only one coming of Christ, but a second as well, much more glorious than the first. The first coming was marked by patience: the second will bring the crown of a divine kingdom. In general, whatever relates to our Lord Jesus Christ has two aspects. There is a birth from God before the ages, and a birth from a virgin at the fullness of time. There is a hidden coming, "like that of rain on fleece", and a coming before all eyes, still in the future.

At the first coming He was wrapped in swaddling clothes in a manger. At His second coming He will be "clothed in light as in a garment." In the first coming He endured the Cross, despising the shame; in the second coming He will be in glory, escorted by an army of Angels. We look then beyond the first coming and await the second. At the first coming we said: "Blessed is He Who comes in the Name of the Lord." At the second we shall say it again: we shall go out with the Angels to meet the Lord and cry out in adoration: "Blessed is He Who comes in the Name of the Lord."

The Saviour will not come to be judged again, but to judge those by whom He was judged. At His own judgement He was silent: then He will address those who committed the outrages against Him when they crucified Him and will remind them: "Ye did these things, and I was silent." His first coming was to fulfil His plan of love, to teach men by gentle persuasion. This time, whether men desire it or not, they will be subjects of His kingdom by necessity.

Malachi the prophet speaks of the two comings. "And the Lord whom ye seek will come suddenly to His temple": that is one coming. Again he says of another coming: "Behold: the Lord almighty will come, and who will endure the day of His entry, or who will stand in His sight? Because He comes like a refiner's fire, a fuller's herb, and He will sit refining and cleansing." These two comings are also referred to by Paul in writing to Titus: "The grace of God the Saviour has appeared to all men, instructing us to put aside impiety and worldly desires and live temperately, uprightly, and religiously in this present age, waiting for the joyful hope, the appearance of the glory of our great God and Saviour, Jesus Christ." Notice how he speaks of a first coming for which he gives thanks, and a second, the one we still await.

That is why the faith we profess has been handed on to you in these words: "He ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of the Father, and He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead, and His kingdom will have no end." Our Lord Jesus Christ will therefore come from heaven. He will come at the end of the world, in glory, at the last day. For there will be an end to this world, and the created world will be made new.

Romans 13:11-12
Ye know what time it is: how it is now the moment for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we became believers: the night is far gone, the day is near. Let us then lay aside the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.

Philippians 4:4-5
Rejoice in the Lord always: again I say, "Rejoice." Let your gentleness be known to everyone: the Lord is near.

Wedding of the Lamb
?n  Wedding of the Lamb
    See Revelation 19:1-7
Alleluia!
Salvation and glory and power to our God:
    for His judgments are true and just:
Praise our God,
    all ye His servants,
all who fear Him,
    small and great.
        
Alleluia!
For the Lord our God
    the Almighty reigns.
Let us rejoice and exult
    and give Him the glory,
for the marriage of the Lamb has come,
    and His bride has made herself ready.

Leo the Great I
?n  Sermon XIII on the December Fast
    Saint Leo the Great, Doctor and Pope
Our Saviour Himself instructed His disciples concerning the times and seasons of the coming of the Kingdom of God and the end of the world, and He has given the same teaching to the Church by the mouth of His Apostles. In connection with this subject then, Our Lord bids us beware lest we let our hearts grow heavy through excess of meat and drink, and worldly thoughts. Dearly beloved brethren, we know how that this warning applies particularly to us. We know that that day is coming, and though for a season we know not the very hour, yet this we know, that it is near.
 
Let every man then make himself ready against the coming of the Lord, so that He may not find him making his belly his god, or the world his chief care. Dearly beloved brethren, it is a matter of every day experience that fullness of drink dulls the keenness of the mind, and that excess of eating unnerves the strength of the will. The very stomach protests that gluttony does harm to the bodily health, unless temperance gets the better of desire, and the thought of the indigestion afterward checks the indulgence of the moment.

The body without the soul has no desires; its sensibility comes from the same source as its movements. And it is the duty of a man with a reasonable soul to deny something to his lower nature and to keep back the outer man from things unseemly. Then will his soul, free from fleshly cravings, sit often at leisure in the palace of the mind, dwelling on the wisdom of God. There, when the roar and rattle of earthly cares are stilled, will she feed on holy thoughts and entertain herself with the expectation of the everlasting joy.

Isaiah 1:21-27, 2:1-5
How has the faithful town
    become a whore?
Filled with justice,
    where righteousness lodged,
        and now murdered.
Thy silver has turned to dross
    thy drink is mixed with water.
Thy nobles are knaves
    and companions to thieves.
All of them lust for bribes
    and chase illicit payments.
They do not defend the orphan,
    and the widow's case does not touch them.
Therefore, says the King, Lord of Armies, Israel's Savior:
"I will settle scores with my foes
    and take vengeance of My enemies,
and bring My hand back upon thee
    and take away all thy dross
and bring back thy Judges as before
    and thy councillors as long ago.
Then shall thou be called town of righteousness,
    faithful city."
Zion shall be redeemed through justice,
    and those who turn back in her, through righteousness.
    
And it shall happen in future days
    that the mount of the Lord's house shall be firm-founded
        at the top of the mountains and lifted over hills.
And all the nations shall flow to it
    and many peoples shall go and say:
"Come, let us go up to the mount of the Lord,
    to the house of the God of Jacob,
that He may teach us of His ways
    and that we may walk in His paths."
For from Zion shall teaching come forth
    and the Lord's word from Jerusalem.
And He shall judge among the nations
    and be arbiter for many peoples.
And they shall grind their swords into plowshares
    and their spears into pruning hooks.
Nation shall not raise sword against nation
    nor shall they learn war anymore.
O house of Jacob,
    come: let us walk in the Lord's light.

Mark 13:33-37
Jesus spoke unto Peter, James, John and Andrew: "Beware and keep alert: for you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his slaves in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to be on the watch. Therefore, keep awake: for ye do not know when the master of the house will come in: in the evening, or at midnight, or at down, or in the morning: or else he may find you asleep when he comes suddenly. And what I say to you I say to all: 'Keep awake.'"

Borromeo I
Beloved, now is the acceptable time spoken of by the Spirit, the day of salvation, peace and reconciliation: the great season of Advent. This is the time eagerly awaited by the Patriarchs and Prophets, the time that holy Simeon rejoiced at last to see. This is the season that the Church has always celebrated with special solemnity. We too should always observe it with faith and love, offering praise and thanksgiving to the Father for the mercy and love He has shown us in this Mystery. In His infinite love for us, though we were sinners, He sent His only Son to free us from the tyranny of Satan, to summon us to heaven, to welcome us into its innermost recesses, to show us truth itself, to train us in right conduct, to plant within us the seeds of virtue, to enrich us with the treasures of His grace, and to make us children of God and heirs of eternal life.

Each year, as the Church recalls this mystery, she urges us to renew the memory of the great love God has shown us. This holy season teaches us that Christ's coming was not only for the benefit of His contemporaries: His power has still to be communicated to us all. We shall share His power, if, through holy faith and the sacraments, we willingly accept the grace Christ earned for us, and live by that grace and in obedience to Christ.

The Church asks us to understand that Christ, who came once in the flesh, is prepared to come again. When we remove all obstacles to His presence He will come, at any hour and moment, to dwell spiritually in our hearts, bringing with Him the riches of his grace. In her concern for our salvation, our loving mother the Church uses this holy season to teach us through hymns, canticles and other forms of expression, of voice or ritual, used by the Holy Spirit. She shows us how grateful we should be for so great a blessing, and how to gain its benefit: our hearts should be as much prepared for the coming of Christ as if He were still to come into this world. The same lesson is given us for our imitation by the words and example of the holy men of the Old Testament.

John 4:25
I know that the Messiah, Who is called Christ, is coming: when He comes, He will teach us all things.

Ephesians 1:3-10
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, just as He chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless before Him in love. He destined us for adoption as His children through Jesus Christ, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace that He freely bestowed on us in the Beloved. In Him we have redemption through His Blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of His grace that He lavished on us. With all wisdom and insight He has made known to us the Mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure that He set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time, to gather up all things in Him: things in heaven and things on earth.

Philippians 3:20-21
Our citizenship is in heaven, and it is from there that we are expecting a Savior: the Lord Jesus Christ. He will transform the body of our humiliation that it may be conformed to the Body of His glory.

Isaiah 2:6-22, 4:2-6
For thou has abandoned thy people,
    O house of Jacob.
For they are full of eastern things:
    soothsayers like the Philistines,
        and they abound in children of strangers.
And his land is filled with silver and gold
    and there is no end to his treasures,
and his land is filled with houses,
    and no end to his chariots.
And his land is filled with idols
    to his handiwork he bows down,
        to what his fingers made.
And the human shall bow low,
    and man shall be brought down,
        and none shall be spared.
Come into the crag
    and hide in the dust
for fear of the Lord
    and from His majesty's glory.
The eyes of human  haughtiness are brought down,
    and men's righteousness is bowed low,
and the Lord alone shall be raised high
    on that day.
For it is a day of the Lord of Armies,
    over all the proud and lofty
        and over all on high and lifted up.
And over all the Lebanon cedars
    that are lofty and raised high
        and over all the Bashan oaks,
and over all the lofty mountains
    and over all the raised-up mountains,
and over every looming tower
    and over every fortress wall,
and over all the Tarshish ships
    and over all lovely crafts.
And human haughtiness shall bow low
    and men's loftiness shall be brought down,
and the Lord alone shall be exalted
    on that day.

Luke 10:23-24

Nazianzen I

Matthew 24:30

Genesis 49:10

1 Corinthians 1:7-9